Task_1/README.md, before:

# Terraform AWS Infrastructure Provisioning

This Terraform project provisions a basic AWS infrastructure setup, including a VPC, public and private subnets, an EC2
instance, and an RDS instance. Secrets are managed securely in AWS Secrets Manager. This setup uses reusable modules and
data resources to create a scalable and easily configurable infrastructure.

## Table of Contents

- [Project Overview](#project-overview)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Outputs](#outputs)
- [Cleaning Up](#cleaning-up)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

---

## Project Overview

This infrastructure setup on AWS includes the following resources:

- **VPC** with public and private subnets
- **EC2 instance** in the public subnet, accessible via HTTP on port 80
- **RDS (MySQL) instance** in the private subnet
- **AWS Secrets Manager** to securely store the RDS instance's database password
- **IAM Role** to allow the EC2 instance to access RDS and secrets if needed

## Prerequisites

Before using this project, ensure you have the following:

- **AWS Account** with credentials that allow provisioning of these resources
- **Terraform** installed (version 0.12+ recommended)
- **AWS CLI** installed and configured
- **Access to create S3 buckets** (if using an S3 backend for state management)

## Project Structure

The project consists of a main configuration and a module for infrastructure components. Here’s a breakdown of the files
and directories:

```plaintext
.
├── main.tf               # Main configuration file
├── variables.tf          # Root-level variables for configuration
├── outputs.tf            # Outputs for resources created by the root module
└── modules/
    └── infrastructure/
        ├── ec2.tf                  # Module's EC2 configuration file
        ├── db.tf                   # Module's DB configuration file
        ├── network.tf              # Module's VPC and subnets configuration file
        ├── security_group.tf       # Module's security group configuration file
        ├── variables.tf            # Module's variables, specific to infrastructure
        ├── outputs.tf              # Module's outputs to be accessed by the root
        ├── providers.tf            # Provider configuration for AWS and Random

```

## Configuration

### Variables

You can customize the infrastructure by setting values for the variables defined in `variables.tf` files. Defaults are
provided for many variables, but you should review them to ensure they meet your needs.

The main configurable variables include:

- **key_name**: AWS key for connecting to the EC2. Default is `none`.
- **region**: AWS region to deploy resources. Default is `us-east-1`.
- **vpc_cidr_block**: CIDR block for the VPC. Default is `10.0.0.0/16`.
- **public_subnet_cidr** and **private_subnet_cidr**: CIDR blocks for public and private subnets.
- **ami**: AMI ID for the EC2 instance. Adjust as needed based on your region.
- **db_name**: Name for the RDS database.
- **instance_type**: EC2 instance type (e.g., `t2.micro`).

### Sensitive Variables

The database password is generated securely using the `random` provider and stored in AWS Secrets Manager. You do not
need to define it manually.

## Usage

### 1. Initialize Terraform

First, initialize Terraform to download necessary provider plugins and set up the working directory:

```bash
terraform init
```

### 2. Plan the Infrastructure

To view the resources that will be created and verify the configuration before applying the changes, run:

```bash
terraform plan
```

This command will show a preview of what Terraform intends to create based on your configuration.

### 3. Apply the Configuration

Once you're satisfied with the plan, apply the configuration to provision the resources on AWS. Terraform will prompt
you for confirmation before proceeding:

```bash
terraform apply
```

Terraform will output the necessary details, including:

- Public IP of the EC2 instance
- VPC ID
- ARN of the secret in AWS Secrets Manager
- Database endpoint

### 4. Accessing the EC2 Instance and testing DB connection

After deploying the infrastructure, you can SSH into the EC2 instance using its public IP address (provided in the
output). Ensure your security group settings and SSH key are correctly configured to allow access.
* you should be able to access via the AWS console:
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-connect-methods.html#ec2-instance-connect-connecting-console


#### Install the MySQL client:
```bash
# Update the package index
sudo dnf update -y

# Install the MariaDB 10.5 client with auto "yes"
sudo dnf install -y mariadb105
```

#### Run DB connection test 
* replace DB_HOST (no port) and SECRET_ARN) from ```terrafrom output```:
```bash
export DB_HOST="DB_HOST" && # Set the DB host
export DB_PASSWORD=`aws secretsmanager get-secret-value --secret-id <SECRET_ARN> --query SecretString --output text` && # Set the DB password
export DB_USER="admin" && # Set the DB username
export DB_NAME="mydatabase" && # Set the DB name
mysql -h $DB_HOST -u $DB_USER -p$DB_PASSWORD $DB_NAME -e "SELECT 1" 2>/dev/null && # Try connecting to the DB
echo "Connection successful!" || # Print success message
echo "Failed to connect to the database." # Print failure message
```



## Outputs

The `outputs.tf` file in the root module provides important details after the infrastructure has been deployed. Key
outputs include:

- `vpc_id`: The ID of the created VPC.
- `public_subnet_id`: The ID of the public subnet.
- `ec2_instance_public_ip`: The public IP address of the EC2 instance.
- `db_password_secret_arn`: The ARN of the stored secret in AWS Secrets Manager.
- `db_instance_endpoint`: The endpoint for the RDS database instance.

To view the outputs, use the following command:

```bash
terraform output
```

## Cleaning Up

To delete all resources created by this Terraform project, run:

```bash
terraform destroy
```

**Important**: This command will remove all provisioned resources, including data stored in the RDS instance. Ensure you
back up any necessary data before executing this command.

## Troubleshooting

- **IAM Permissions**: Ensure the AWS user or role you're using has the necessary permissions to create VPCs, EC2
  instances, RDS instances, and Secrets Manager resources.
- **EC2 SSH Access**: If you're unable to SSH into the EC2 instance, check that your security group allows inbound
  traffic on port 22 from your IP address.
- **Database Connectivity**: Ensure that the EC2 instance has network access to the RDS instance through the private
  subnet configuration.

Commit message:

added user key in task 1

Task_1/README.md, after:

# Terraform AWS Infrastructure Provisioning

This Terraform project provisions a basic AWS infrastructure setup, including a VPC, public and private subnets, an EC2
instance, and an RDS instance. Secrets are managed securely in AWS Secrets Manager. This setup uses reusable modules and
data resources to create a scalable and easily configurable infrastructure.

## Table of Contents

- [Project Overview](#project-overview)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Outputs](#outputs)
- [Cleaning Up](#cleaning-up)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

---

## Project Overview

This infrastructure setup on AWS includes the following resources:

- **VPC** with public and private subnets
- **EC2 instance** in the public subnet, accessible via HTTP on port 80
- **RDS (MySQL) instance** in the private subnet
- **AWS Secrets Manager** to securely store the RDS instance's database password
- **IAM Role** to allow the EC2 instance to access RDS and secrets if needed

## Prerequisites

Before using this project, ensure you have the following:

- **AWS Account** with credentials that allow provisioning of these resources
- **Terraform** installed (version 0.12+ recommended)
- **AWS CLI** installed and configured
- **Key Pair** set up in the AWS region to be able to connect to the instance

## Project Structure

The project consists of a main configuration and a module for infrastructure components. Here’s a breakdown of the files
and directories:

```plaintext
.
├── main.tf               # Main configuration file
├── variables.tf          # Root-level variables for configuration
├── outputs.tf            # Outputs for resources created by the root module
└── modules/
    └── infrastructure/
        ├── ec2.tf                  # Module's EC2 configuration file
        ├── db.tf                   # Module's DB configuration file
        ├── network.tf              # Module's VPC and subnets configuration file
        ├── security_group.tf       # Module's security group configuration file
        ├── variables.tf            # Module's variables, specific to infrastructure
        ├── outputs.tf              # Module's outputs to be accessed by the root
        ├── providers.tf            # Provider configuration for AWS and Random

```

## Configuration

### Variables

You can customize the infrastructure by setting values for the variables defined in `variables.tf` files. Defaults are
provided for many variables, but you should review them to ensure they meet your needs.

The main configurable variables include:

- **key_name**: AWS key for connecting to the EC2. Default is `none`.
- **region**: AWS region to deploy resources. Default is `us-east-1`.
- **vpc_cidr_block**: CIDR block for the VPC. Default is `10.0.0.0/16`.
- **public_subnet_cidr** and **private_subnet_cidr**: CIDR blocks for public and private subnets.
- **ami**: AMI ID for the EC2 instance. Adjust as needed based on your region.
- **db_name**: Name for the RDS database.
- **instance_type**: EC2 instance type (e.g., `t2.micro`).

### Sensitive Variables

The database password is generated securely using the `random` provider and stored in AWS Secrets Manager. You do not
need to define it manually.

## Usage

### 1. Initialize Terraform

First, initialize Terraform to download necessary provider plugins and set up the working directory:

```bash
terraform init
```

### 2. Plan the Infrastructure

To view the resources that will be created and verify the configuration before applying the changes, run:

```bash
terraform plan
```

This command will show a preview of what Terraform intends to create based on your configuration.

### 3. Apply the Configuration

Once you're satisfied with the plan, apply the configuration to provision the resources on AWS. Terraform will prompt
you for confirmation before proceeding:
* To be able to connect to the instance, add a key name and make your you have access to it's key pair.

```bash
terraform apply -var="key_name=<YOUR_KEY_NAME>"
```
* In case you would like to connect from the AWS console (without using a key) you can just run:
```bash
terraform apply
```

Terraform will output the necessary details, including:

- Public IP of the EC2 instance
- VPC ID
- ARN of the secret in AWS Secrets Manager
- Database endpoint

### 4. Accessing the EC2 Instance and testing DB connection

After deploying the infrastructure, you can SSH into the EC2 instance using its public IP address (provided in the
output). Ensure your security group settings and SSH key are correctly configured to allow access.
* You should be able to access via the AWS console:
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-connect-methods.html#ec2-instance-connect-connecting-console

* Or use your public key:
```bash
ssh -i ~/path/to/key.pem ec2-user@<PUBLIC IP>
```

### Testing DB connection
#### 1.Install the MySQL client:
```bash
# Update the package index
sudo dnf update -y

# Install the MariaDB 10.5 client with auto "yes"
sudo dnf install -y mariadb105
```

#### 2.Run DB connection test 
* replace <DB_HOST> (with no port) and <SECRET_ARN> from ```terrafrom output```:
```bash
export DB_HOST="<DB_HOST>" && # Set the DB host
export DB_PASSWORD=`aws secretsmanager get-secret-value --secret-id <SECRET_ARN> --query SecretString --output text` && # Set the DB password
export DB_USER="admin" && # Set the DB username
export DB_NAME="mydatabase" && # Set the DB name
mysql -h $DB_HOST -u $DB_USER -p$DB_PASSWORD $DB_NAME -e "SELECT 1" 2>/dev/null && # Try connecting to the DB
echo "Connection successful!" || # Print success message
echo "Failed to connect to the database." # Print failure message
```



## Outputs

The `outputs.tf` file in the root module provides important details after the infrastructure has been deployed. Key
outputs include:

- `vpc_id`: The ID of the created VPC.
- `public_subnet_id`: The ID of the public subnet.
- `ec2_instance_public_ip`: The public IP address of the EC2 instance.
- `db_password_secret_arn`: The ARN of the stored secret in AWS Secrets Manager.
- `db_instance_endpoint`: The endpoint for the RDS database instance.

To view the outputs, use the following command:

```bash
terraform output
```

## Cleaning Up

To delete all resources created by this Terraform project, run:

```bash
terraform destroy
```

**Important**: This command will remove all provisioned resources, including data stored in the RDS instance. Ensure you
back up any necessary data before executing this command.

## Troubleshooting

- **IAM Permissions**: Ensure the AWS user or role you're using has the necessary permissions to create VPCs, EC2
  instances, RDS instances, and Secrets Manager resources.
- **EC2 SSH Access**: If you're unable to SSH into the EC2 instance, check that your security group allows inbound
  traffic on port 22 from your IP address.
- **Database Connectivity**: Ensure that the EC2 instance has network access to the RDS instance through the private
  subnet configuration.
